feat: adding gcp quickstart (#4348)
coder/coder: docs/quickstart/google-cloud-platform.md

# Google Cloud Platform

## Requirements

This quick start assumes you have administrator access to your Google Cloud Platform instance. 

> ## Setting Up your VM  

Reviewer: I commented something similar on the AWS and Azure quickstarts but it was lost to the noise.

We should explain to people that we're first creating the control plane instance (using friendlier language). It is not clear from these tutorials that we're creating the workspace manager VM as opposed to the workspace VM.

## Setting Up your VM  

If this is the first time you’re creating a VM on this project, you will need to enable the `Compute Engine API`. On the Compute Engine API page, click `enable` and wait for the service to finish connecting.

<img src="../images/quickstart/google-cloud-platform/gcp0.png">

This will pull up the `Create an Instance` page - name the instance something relevant to this project, following your naming convention of choice. In addition, select a region and zone that is close to your physical location. For this instance, we will use the base suggested image.

<img src="../images/quickstart/google-cloud-platform/gcp1.png">

> Under `Identity and API Access`, click `Allow full access to all Cloud APIs`. Scroll down to `Firewall` and click `Allow HTTPS traffic` and `Allow HTTP traffic`.

Author: @bpmct

Congrats you’ve created your VM instance!

> ## SSH-ing into the VM

Author: polling the community will get back to you with an answer but for now let's proceed and reformat later :)

On the Compute Engine Dashboard, click on the VM for this project. Under `Details`, click `SSH` and select `Open in browser window`.

<img src="../images/quickstart/google-cloud-platform/gcp3.png">

This will give you a terminal to maneuver, manipulate the VM, and install Coder.

## Install Coder

In the terminal, run the following command 

```sh
curl -fsSL https://coder.com/install.sh | sh  
```

## Run Coder

> For this tutorial, we will run Coder as a System service. You can run Coder in [a multitude of different ways](https://coder.com/docs/coder-oss/latest/install).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this tutorial, we will run Coder as a `systemd` service. You can run Coder in [a multitude of ways](https://coder.com/docs/coder-oss/latest/install).
```

Reviewer: We should either use "`systemd` service" or "system service". The proper noun "System" indicates that there is some piece of software called "System" to me. 

The advantage to specifying "systemd" is to separate us from other pid 1s such as launchd and upstart.

Reviewer: This one was left unaddressed.

First, edit the `coder.env` file to enable `CODER_TUNNEL` by setting the value to true with the following command:

``` sh
sudo vim /etc/coder.d/coder.env
``` 

> <img src="../images/quickstart/google-cloud-platform/gcp4.png">

Reviewer: This should be a code block instead of a picture of code.

Author: other tutorials dont use code blocks for this

> Exit vim and run the following command to start Coder as a system service:

Reviewer: ****
```suggestion
Exit vim and run the following command to start Coder as a service:
```

<img src="../images/quickstart/google-cloud-platform/gcp4.png">

> 

Reviewer 2: We can remove this since the tunnel runs by default now

Reviewer 2: @endingwithali

``` 

> The following command will get you information about the Coder service that is running and is also where the access URL for this Coder instance is written. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following command shows the Coder service's logs, including the Access URL.
```
Can be slimmed down

```sh
journalctl -u coder.service -b 
``` 

> This will return a series of logs from launching Coder, however, embedded in the launch is the URL for accessing Coder. 

Reviewer: Nearly redundant with the above sentence.

<img src="../images/quickstart/google-cloud-platform/gcp5.png">

In this instance, Coder can be accessed at the URL  `https://fcca2f3bfc9d2e3bf1b9feb50e723448.pit-1.try.coder.app`. 

Copy the URL and run the following command to create the workspace admin:

```sh
coder login <url***.try.coder.app>
```

> Fill out the prompts and be sure to save use email and password. These are your admin username and password. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fill out the prompts and be sure to save use email and password. This is your admin login. 
```
1. `This` is correct grammar
2. Avoid repeating `email and password` for more engaging text

> You can now access Coder on your local machine by navigating to the `***.try.coder.app` URL and logging in with the username and password. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now access Coder from your local machine by navigating to the `***.try.coder.app` URL and logging in with the username and password. 
```
This sentence is too similar to the above one, and repeats `username and password`.

> Fill out the prompts and be sure to save use email and password. This is your admin login. Now, you can now access Coder from your local machine by navigating to the `***.try.coder.app` URL and logging in with that same username and password. 

Reviewer 3: Fill out the prompts and be sure to save user email and password. This is your admin login. You can now access Coder from your local machine by navigating to the `***.try.coder.app` URL and logging in with that same username and password.

> Fill out the prompts and be sure to save use email and password. This is your admin login. Now, you can now access Coder from your local machine by navigating to the `***.try.coder.app` URL and logging in with that same username and password. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Fill out the prompts and be sure to save user email and password. This is your admin login. You can now access Coder from your local machine by navigating to the `***.try.coder.app` URL and logging in with that same username and password. 
```

## Creating and Uploading your First Template

> First, run `coder template init` to create your first template. You’ll be given a list of possible templates to potentially use. This tutorial will show you how to create a Linux based template on GCP. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, run `coder template init` to create your first template. You’ll be given a list of possible templates. This tutorial shows you how to create a Linux based template on GCP. 
```
1. "to potentially use" is redundant

<img src="../images/quickstart/google-cloud-platform/gcp6.png">

> Select the `Develop in Linux on Google Cloud`, then `cd ./gcp-linux` into the folder created from initializing a template. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the `Develop in Linux on Google Cloud`, then `cd ./gcp-linux`.
```

Run the following command: 

```sh
coder templates create
```

It will ask for your `project-id`, which you can find on the home page of your GCP Dashboard. 

> Given it’s your first time setting up Coder, it may an error that will look like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Given it’s your first time setting up Coder, it may display an error that will look like the following:
```

<img src="../images/quickstart/google-cloud-platform/gcp7.png">

> In the error message will be a link. In this case, the URL is `https://console.developes.google.com/apis/api/iam.googles.com/overview:?project=1073148106645`. Copy the respective URL from your error message, and visit it via your browser. It may ask you to enable `Identity and Access Management (IAM) API`. 

Reviewer 2: My error message didn't contain a link :/

<img width="1360" alt="Screen Shot 2022-10-17 at 3 20 10 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22407953/196275293-8da291ae-4b2a-4d87-8df7-a39c6b6b084e.png">

Reviewer 2: I discovered that we can set the service account scopes during VM creation. I also tried changing the scopes on creating but it didn't seem to work.

<img width="534" alt="Screen Shot 2022-10-17 at 3 23 36 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22407953/196276177-15f1271d-2068-4922-bfe9-e51dd5affbfa.png">

Click `enable` and wait as the API initializes for your account. 

Once initialized, click create credentials in the upper right-hand corner. Select the `Compute Engine API` from the dropdown, and select `Application Data` under `What data will you be accessing?`. In addition, select `Yes, I’m using one or more` under `Are you planning on using this API with Compute Engine, Kubernetes Engine, App Engine, or Cloud Functions?`.

<img src="../images/quickstart/google-cloud-platform/gcp8.png">

Back in your GCP terminal, run the `coder templates create` one more time. 

> Congrats! You can now create new Linux-based workspaces that use Google Cloud Platform. 

Reviewer: Maybe add a sentence to the effect of:

"Now, return to the dashboard to create your first GCP Linux workspace."

# Google Cloud Platform

> In this quickstart, you will learn how to deploy the Coder control plane instance, and deploy your first template. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this quickstart, you will learn how to deploy the Coder control plane instance and your first template. 
```

The `,` was incorrect since the latter clause is dependent. And, we can omit `deploy` for brevity.

## Requirements

This quickstart assumes you have `roles/compute.instanceAdmin.v1` access to your Google Cloud Platform project.  

## Setting Up your VM  

If this is the first time you’re creating a VM on this project, you will need to enable the `Compute Engine API`. On the Compute Engine API page, click `enable` and wait for the service to finish connecting.

<img src="../images/quickstart/google-cloud-platform/gcp0.png">

This will pull up the `Create an Instance` page - name the instance something relevant to this project, following your naming convention of choice. In addition, select a region and zone that is close to your physical location. For this instance, we will use the base suggested image.

<img src="../images/quickstart/google-cloud-platform/gcp1.png">

Under `Identity and API Access`, click `Allow full access to all Cloud APIs`. Scroll down to `Firewall` and click `Allow HTTPS traffic` and `Allow HTTP traffic`.

<img src="../images/quickstart/google-cloud-platform/gcp2.png">

Scroll down to the bottom and click `Create` to create and deploy the VM.

Congrats you’ve created your VM instance!

## SSH-ing into the VM

> On the Compute Engine Dashboard, click on the VM for this project. Under `Details`, click `SSH` and select `Open in browser window`.

Reviewer: Nit: the rest of the tutorial doesn't depend on how the user enters a terminal. I think we can leave the instruction more open-ended. I, for one, always prefer native terminals over the web terminal.

Author: t- however for this, im getting the quickest way to get started, from 0. if someone wants to losely follow the tutorial and use their own native terminal go crazy ? but this tutorial is for the 0 :)

Reviewer: kk

<img src="../images/quickstart/google-cloud-platform/gcp3.png">

> This will give you a terminal into the VM athat we will use to install Coder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will give you a terminal into the VM we will use to install Coder.
```

```

## Run Coder

For this tutorial, we will run Coder as a System service. You can run Coder in [a multitude of different ways](https://coder.com/docs/coder-oss/latest/install).

First, edit the `coder.env` file to enable `CODER_TUNNEL` by setting the value to true with the following command:

``` sh
sudo vim /etc/coder.d/coder.env
``` 

<img src="../images/quickstart/google-cloud-platform/gcp4.png">

Exit vim and run the following command to start Coder as a system service:

```sh
sudo systemctl enable --now coder
``` 

The following command will get you information about the Coder service that is running and is also where the access URL for this Coder instance is written. 

```sh
journalctl -u coder.service -b 
``` 

This will return a series of logs from launching Coder, however, embedded in the launch is the URL for accessing Coder. 

<img src="../images/quickstart/google-cloud-platform/gcp5.png">

In this instance, Coder can be accessed at the URL  `https://fcca2f3bfc9d2e3bf1b9feb50e723448.pit-1.try.coder.app`. 

Copy the URL and run the following command to create the workspace admin:

```sh
coder login <url***.try.coder.app>
```

> Fill out the prompts and be sure to save use email and password. These are your admin username and password. Now, you can now access Coder from your local machine by navigating to the `***.try.coder.app` URL and logging in with that same username and password. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fill out the prompts and be sure to save use email and password. This is your admin username and password. Now, you can now access Coder from your local machine by navigating to the `***.try.coder.app` URL and logging in with that same username and password. 
```

## Creating and Uploading your First Template

> First, run `coder template init` to create your first template. You’ll be given a list of possible prefabricated templates. This tutorial shows you how to create a Linux based template on GCP. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, run `coder template init` to create your first template. You’ll be given a list of prefabricated templates. This tutorial shows you how to create a Linux based template on GCP. 
```
